README.md, before:

# Repo Reporter

## Set-up

Follow these set-up instructions to start a local instance of Repo Reporter.

### Clone

First clone then `cd` to the root directory of this repo before running these commands.

### Create Private Environment File

The flask application will look for a file named `.env` in its root directory. If it finds it, it will load it to your local environment. Create this file.

`$ touch .env`

> `.env` is a file ignored by git.

### Create GitHub Personal Access Token

A GitHub account authenticates you to the GitHub API. Be sure the account has push privileges for the configured repos.

Create a personal access token on GitHub following these [instructions](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line). Be sure to select the **repo** scope. No other scope is needed.

> This token should be kept secret.

### Store GitHub Personal Access Token in your local Environment

The token will allow you to authenticate to Github. The token must be named `GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

`$ echo GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-newly-aquired-super-secret-token >> .env`

### Generate Secret Key in your local Environment

The secret key will allow you to define a Flask session. The token must be named `RR_SECRET_KEY`.

`echo "RR_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 32)" >> .env`

### Install MongoDB

MongoDB [official install instructions](https://treehouse.github.io/installation-guides/mac/mongo-mac.html) didn't work for me, likely because i'm running Catalina. If you're running Mojave, they might work for you.

```sh
$ brew update
$ brew install mongodb
```

Install MongoDB on Mac Catalina using Homebrew.

```sh
$ brew tap mongodb/brew
$ brew install mongodb-community
```

### Start Mongo Daemon

Start the mongo daemon on it's default port.

`$ mongod --dbpath /usr/local/var/mongodb`

### Python3

Ensure you have Python3 installed.

`$ python3 --version`

> This project is built using Python 3.7.3, the macOS Catalina default.

### Create Python3 Virtual Environment

Create a Python3 virtual environment named `repo-reporter-venv`:

`$ python3 -m venv repo-reporter-venv`

> Actually, you can name the virtual environment whatever you want with no breaking changes.

### Activate Python3 Virtual Environment

Ask linux to run the activate program located in the virtual environment.

`$ source repo-reporter-venv/bin/activate`

### Install Project Dependencies

Install dependencies to the `repo-reporter-venv` virtual environment lib.

`$(repo-reporter-venv) pip install -r ./requirements.txt`

### Start Flask Server

Start the flask server on the default port, `5000`.

`$(repo-reporter-venv) flask run`

Check that the http server works by typing into your browser url bar: `localhost:5000/`

Commit message:

adds instructions for specifying app run on host and port

README.md, after:

# Repo Reporter

## Set-up

Follow these set-up instructions to start a local instance of Repo Reporter.

### Clone

First clone then `cd` to the root directory of this repo before running these commands.

### Create Private Environment File

The flask application will look for a file named `.env` in its root directory. If it finds it, it will load it to your local environment. Create this file.

`$ touch .env`

> `.env` is a file ignored by git.

### Create GitHub Personal Access Token

A GitHub account authenticates you to the GitHub API. Be sure the account has push privileges for the configured repos.

Create a personal access token on GitHub following these [instructions](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line). Be sure to select the **repo** scope. No other scope is needed.

> This token should be kept secret.

### Store GitHub Personal Access Token in your local Environment

The token will allow you to authenticate to Github. The token must be named `GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

`$ echo GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-newly-aquired-super-secret-token >> .env`

### Generate Secret Key in your local Environment

The secret key will allow you to define a Flask session. The token must be named `RR_SECRET_KEY`.

`echo "RR_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 32)" >> .env`

### Install MongoDB

MongoDB [official install instructions](https://treehouse.github.io/installation-guides/mac/mongo-mac.html) didn't work for me, likely because i'm running Catalina. If you're running Mojave, they might work for you.

```sh
$ brew update
$ brew install mongodb
```

Install MongoDB on Mac Catalina using Homebrew.

```sh
$ brew tap mongodb/brew
$ brew install mongodb-community
```

### Start Mongo Daemon

Start the mongo daemon on it's default port.

`$ mongod --dbpath /usr/local/var/mongodb`

### Python3

Ensure you have Python3 installed.

`$ python3 --version`

> This project is built using Python 3.7.3, the macOS Catalina default.

### Create Python3 Virtual Environment

Create a Python3 virtual environment named `repo-reporter-venv`:

`$ python3 -m venv repo-reporter-venv`

> Actually, you can name the virtual environment whatever you want with no breaking changes.

### Activate Python3 Virtual Environment

Ask linux to run the activate program located in the virtual environment.

`$ source repo-reporter-venv/bin/activate`

### Install Project Dependencies

Install dependencies to the `repo-reporter-venv` virtual environment lib.

`$(repo-reporter-venv) pip install -r ./requirements.txt`

### Start Flask Server

Start the flask server on the default port, `5000`.

`$(repo-reporter-venv) flask run`

_or specify host and port yourself_

`$(repo-reporter-venv) flask run -h localhost -p 5000`

Check that the http server works by typing into your browser url bar: `localhost:5000/`
